docs/docs/configuration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
title: Configuration
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The configurations in this page can be set from several sources in the following order:

1. the [operating system's environment variables]; for instance, an environment variable can be set with
   `export OAUTH_ENABLED="true"`
2. the [Java system properties]; for example, a Java system property can be set using
   `System.setProperty("OAUTH_ENABLED", "true")`
3. a **.properties** file placed under CLASSPATH. This file can be put under `src/main/resources` source directory with
   contents, for example, `OAUTH_ENABLED=true`

Note that environment config has higher priority than Java system properties. Java system properties have higher
priority than file based configuration.

Core Properties
---------------

:::info

The following configurations can be placed in the properties file called **src/main/resources/application.properties**

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jpa-elide" label="JPA(Elide)" default>
    <b>MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME</b>: The fully qualified package name that contains a set of Elide JPA models
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Security
--------

:::info

The following configurations can be placed in the properties file called **src/main/resources/oauth.properties**

:::

- **OAUTH_ENABLED**: Whether or not to enable [OAuthFilter] container request filter.
- **JWKS_URL**: (**Required if `OAUTH_ENABLED` is set to `true`**) A standard [JWKS] URL that, on GET, returns a json
  object such as

  ```json
  {
      "keys": [
          {
              "kty": "EC",
              "use": "sig",
              "kid": "eTERknhur9q8gisdaf_dfrqrgdfsg",
              "alg": "ES384",
              "crv": "P-384",
              "x": "sdfrgHGYF...",
              "y": "sdfuUIG&8..."
          }
      ]
  }
  ```

JPA DataStore
-------------

:::info

The following configurations can be placed in the properties file called **src/main/resources/jpadatastore.properties**

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jpa-elide" label="JPA(Elide)" default>
    <ul>
      <li> <b>DB_USER</b>: Persistence DB username (needs have both Read and Write permissions).</li>
      <li> <b>DB_PASSWORD</b>: The persistence DB user password.</li>
      <li> <b>DB_URL</b>: The persistence DB URL, such as "jdbc:mysql://localhost/elide?serverTimezone=UTC".</li>
      <li> <b>DB_DRIVER</b>: The SQL DB driver class name, such as "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver".</li>
      <li> <b>DB_DIALECT</b>: The SQL DB dialect name, such as "org.hibernate.dialect.MySQLDialect".</li>
    </ul>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

[Java system properties]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/sysprop.html
[JWKS]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517

[OAuthFilter]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/apidocs/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/web/filters/OAuthFilter.html
[operating system's environment variables]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/env.html

Commit message:

Add copyright claims to docs

docs/docs/configuration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
title: Configuration
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The configurations in this page can be set from several sources in the following order:

1. the [operating system's environment variables]; for instance, an environment variable can be set with
   `export OAUTH_ENABLED="true"`
2. the [Java system properties]; for example, a Java system property can be set using
   `System.setProperty("OAUTH_ENABLED", "true")`
3. a **.properties** file placed under CLASSPATH. This file can be put under `src/main/resources` source directory with
   contents, for example, `OAUTH_ENABLED=true`

Note that environment config has higher priority than Java system properties. Java system properties have higher
priority than file based configuration.

Core Properties
---------------

:::info

The following configurations can be placed in the properties file called **src/main/resources/application.properties**

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jpa-elide" label="JPA(Elide)" default>
    <b>MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME</b>: The fully qualified package name that contains a set of Elide JPA models
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Security
--------

:::info

The following configurations can be placed in the properties file called **src/main/resources/oauth.properties**

:::

- **OAUTH_ENABLED**: Whether or not to enable [OAuthFilter] container request filter.
- **JWKS_URL**: (**Required if `OAUTH_ENABLED` is set to `true`**) A standard [JWKS] URL that, on GET, returns a json
  object such as

  ```json
  {
      "keys": [
          {
              "kty": "EC",
              "use": "sig",
              "kid": "eTERknhur9q8gisdaf_dfrqrgdfsg",
              "alg": "ES384",
              "crv": "P-384",
              "x": "sdfrgHGYF...",
              "y": "sdfuUIG&8..."
          }
      ]
  }
  ```

JPA DataStore
-------------

:::info

The following configurations can be placed in the properties file called **src/main/resources/jpadatastore.properties**

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jpa-elide" label="JPA(Elide)" default>
    <ul>
      <li> <b>DB_USER</b>: Persistence DB username (needs have both Read and Write permissions).</li>
      <li> <b>DB_PASSWORD</b>: The persistence DB user password.</li>
      <li> <b>DB_URL</b>: The persistence DB URL, such as "jdbc:mysql://localhost/elide?serverTimezone=UTC".</li>
      <li> <b>DB_DRIVER</b>: The SQL DB driver class name, such as "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver".</li>
      <li> <b>DB_DIALECT</b>: The SQL DB dialect name, such as "org.hibernate.dialect.MySQLDialect".</li>
    </ul>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

[Java system properties]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/sysprop.html
[JWKS]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517

[OAuthFilter]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/apidocs/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/web/filters/OAuthFilter.html
[operating system's environment variables]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/env.html
