docs/docs/setup.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Setup
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

:::caution

Before proceeding, it is important to note that **we DO NOT support Spring/Spring Boot paradigm**.
[Jersey Webservice Template] runs as a **[JAX-RS]** webservice backed by its reference implementation [Jersey] running
as a WAR inside [Jetty] container.

More info about difference between JAX-RS and Spring can be found in [this thread](https://stackoverflow.com/a/42955575)

:::

This section discusses the one-time setup in order to develop [Jersey Webservice Template].

Prepare for Local Development
-----------------------------

### Installing Java & Maven (on Mac)

```bash
brew update
brew install openjdk@17
```

At the end of the last command prompt, something like the below will show up:

```bash
For the system Java wrappers to find this JDK, symlink it with
  sudo ln -sfn ...openjdk@17/libexec/openjdk.jdk .../JavaVirtualMachines/openjdk-17.jdk

openjdk@17 is keg-only, which means it was not symlinked into /usr/local,
because this is an alternate version of another formula.

If you need to have openjdk@17 first in your PATH, run:
  echo 'export PATH=".../openjdk@17/bin:$PATH"' >> .../.bash_profile

For compilers to find openjdk@17 you may need to set:
  export CPPFLAGS="-I.../openjdk@17/include"
```

Make sure to execute the `sudo ln -sfn`, `echo 'export PATH=...`, and the `export CPPFLAGS=` commands above

:::tip

Maven uses a separate JDK version, which can be seen via `mvn -v`. If it's not JDK 17, we should have Maven point
to our JDK 17 using [JAVA_HOME](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2503679):

```bash
$ /usr/libexec/java_home
/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-17.jdk/Contents/Home

$ export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-17.jdk/Contents/Home
```

:::

If we see something similar after typing the command with the version flag below we're good to go

```bash
$ java --version
openjdk 17.0.10 2021-01-19
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 17.0.10+9)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 17.0.10+9, mixed mode)
```

### Installing Docker Engine

[Jersey Webservice Template] has [Docker-based integration tests][Docker-based integration tests];
it also supports [running template webserivce in Docker][jersey-webservice-template Dockerfile]. Docker can be
installed by following its [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)

Getting Source Code
-------------------

```bash
git clone git@github.com:QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template.git
cd jersey-webservice-template
```

### Syncing up with jersey-webservice-template's Code Styles with IntelliJ

For the moment, we have distilled the most important code style conventions with respect to
jersey-webservice-template's code as IntelliJ settings. If IntelliJ is used for IDE, we may import these code style
settings by importing the [jersey-webservice-template-Project-intellij-code-style.xml][style config] file in the root
of the repo. The setting for the project will appear as a new Scheme named "jersey-webservice-template-Project" under
IDE's `Editor -> Code Style` section.

[Caching]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/tree/master/src/main/java/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/cache
[Caching tests]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/tree/master/src/test/groovy/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/cache

[Docker-based integration tests]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/master/src/test/groovy/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/DataServletITSpec.groovy

[JAX-RS]: https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=370
[Jersey]: https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jersey.github.io/documentation/latest/index.html
[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/
[jersey-webservice-template Dockerfile]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/master/Dockerfile
[Jetty]: https://eclipse.dev/jetty/

[style config]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/master/Jersey-Webservice-Template-Project-intellij-code-style.xml

Commit message:

Add documentation on enabling auto unused import removal

docs/docs/setup.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Setup
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

:::caution

Before proceeding, it is important to note that **we DO NOT support Spring/Spring Boot paradigm**.
[Jersey Webservice Template] runs as a **[JAX-RS]** webservice backed by its reference implementation [Jersey] running
as a WAR inside [Jetty] container.

More info about difference between JAX-RS and Spring can be found in [this thread](https://stackoverflow.com/a/42955575)

:::

This section discusses the one-time setup in order to develop [Jersey Webservice Template].

Prepare for Local Development
-----------------------------

### Installing Java & Maven (on Mac)

```bash
brew update
brew install openjdk@17
```

At the end of the last command prompt, something like the below will show up:

```bash
For the system Java wrappers to find this JDK, symlink it with
  sudo ln -sfn ...openjdk@17/libexec/openjdk.jdk .../JavaVirtualMachines/openjdk-17.jdk

openjdk@17 is keg-only, which means it was not symlinked into /usr/local,
because this is an alternate version of another formula.

If you need to have openjdk@17 first in your PATH, run:
  echo 'export PATH=".../openjdk@17/bin:$PATH"' >> .../.bash_profile

For compilers to find openjdk@17 you may need to set:
  export CPPFLAGS="-I.../openjdk@17/include"
```

Make sure to execute the `sudo ln -sfn`, `echo 'export PATH=...`, and the `export CPPFLAGS=` commands above

:::tip

Maven uses a separate JDK version, which can be seen via `mvn -v`. If it's not JDK 17, we should have Maven point
to our JDK 17 using [JAVA_HOME](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2503679):

```bash
$ /usr/libexec/java_home
/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-17.jdk/Contents/Home

$ export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-17.jdk/Contents/Home
```

:::

If we see something similar after typing the command with the version flag below we're good to go

```bash
$ java --version
openjdk 17.0.10 2021-01-19
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 17.0.10+9)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 17.0.10+9, mixed mode)
```

### Installing Docker Engine

[Jersey Webservice Template] has [Docker-based integration tests][Docker-based integration tests];
it also supports [running template webserivce in Docker][jersey-webservice-template Dockerfile]. Docker can be
installed by following its [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)

Getting Source Code
-------------------

```bash
git clone git@github.com:QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template.git
cd jersey-webservice-template
```

### Syncing up with jersey-webservice-template's Code Styles with IntelliJ

For the moment, we have distilled the most important code style conventions with respect to
jersey-webservice-template's code as IntelliJ settings. If IntelliJ is used for IDE, we may import these code style
settings by importing the [jersey-webservice-template-Project-intellij-code-style.xml][style config] file in the root
of the repo. The setting for the project will appear as a new Scheme named "jersey-webservice-template-Project" under
IDE's **Editor** -> **Code Style** section.

Please also enable "remove unused imports" by **Editor -> **General** -> **Auto Import** -> **Optimize Imports on the Fly**, which will automatically remove unused imports.

[Caching]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/tree/master/src/main/java/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/cache
[Caching tests]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/tree/master/src/test/groovy/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/cache

[Docker-based integration tests]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/master/src/test/groovy/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/DataServletITSpec.groovy

[JAX-RS]: https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=370
[Jersey]: https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jersey.github.io/documentation/latest/index.html
[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/
[jersey-webservice-template Dockerfile]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/master/Dockerfile
[Jetty]: https://eclipse.dev/jetty/

[style config]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/master/Jersey-Webservice-Template-Project-intellij-code-style.xml
