docs/docs/elide/development.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 11
title: Development
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

The following guide is intended to help developers who maintain or want to make changes to the
[Jersey Webservice Template].

Overview
--------

[Jersey Webservice Template] (_JWT_) delegates JPA capabilities to [Elide] and configures Elide through 2 required
Elide [bindings][what is binding]:

1. **[Elide][Elide instance class]**
2. **[ElideSettings][ElideSettings instance class]** with 2 extra sub-bindings:

   - **EntityDictionary**
   - **DataStore**

The binding is referencing [Elide Standalone] in the following way:

:::danger

Although the Jersey binder wraps HK2 binder, we
[must pick the _Jersey binder_ for binding Elide resources](https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/pull/29/files#diff-afa024cc2643aaf681db505cac24b8601c94931290718993392e7726001b1559L39-R40),
otherwise, dependency injection will flaky and not right.

:::

![Error loading resource-binding.png](img/resource-binding.png)

Running Tests
-------------

The IT tests will run against an [example model] so make sure the following environment variable is set to point to this
model:

```bash
export TEST_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models
```

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
Next, download the [data model](data-model) to _CLASSPATH_ by setting up the following `~/.m2/settings.xml`
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

:::tip

[JWT] ships with an example `settings.xml` which contains exactly the same settings as the one below. As an
alternative, we could simply run

```bash
cd jersey-webservice-template
cp settings.xml.example ~/.m2/settings.xml
```

:::

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>data-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.qubitpi</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                   jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models
                </model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.0</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>

    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>data-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>
</settings>
```

Then execute the following commands to run both unit and integration tests:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

For IT tests, we use [Testcontainers] instead of [jcabi-mysql] because the latter is hard to configure and debug and
[Testcontainers] support more types of db, such as mongo

Packaging
---------

```bash
mvn clean package
```

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
A [WAR file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WAR_(file_format)) named **jersey-webservice-template-1.0-SNAPSHOT.war** will
be generated under _target_ directory for
[running in Jetty](../development#running-webservice-in-standalone-jetty-production)
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

Running Webservice in Docker Compose
------------------------------------

Jersey Webservice Template can run in [Docker Compose] for the following purposes

1. Decoupling frontend and backend developments
2. Making it easy to run E2E testing of Jersey Webservice Template-backed application in CI/CD

:::caution

Docker Compose designed here is intended for local development and testing purposes ONLY! _It is strongly discouraged
to run this Docker Compose in production!_

:::

import DockerCompose from './img/docker-compose.png';

<div align="center">
   <img src={DockerCompose} width="50%" alt="Error Loading docker-compose.png" />
</div>

### Step 1: Defining Data Models

To inject [Elide model package](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone#create-models), simply put
the models in a separate JAR and include it as a dependency in POM. If the model package is internal and cannot be
visible publicly, either make project private or public with model package dependency info
[injected via settings.xml](https://maven.apache.org/examples/injecting-properties-via-settings.html), for example:

```xml
<project>
    ...

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>${model.package.jar.group.id}</groupId>
            <artifactId>${model.package.jar.artifact.id}</artifactId>
            <version>${model.package.jar.version}</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>

    ...
</project>
```

with a corresponding `~/.m2/settings.xml`:

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>data-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.mycompnay</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>my-model-package</model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.7</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>


    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>data-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>

    <servers>
        ...
    </servers>
</settings>
```

Lastly, if IntelliJ IDE is used for developing [JWT], please make sure to let IDE pick up the `~/.m2/settings.xml` by
unchecking the _Use settings from .mvn/maven.config_:

![Error loading load-m2-settings.png](img/load-m2-settings.png)

### Step 2: Spinning Up Docker Compose

Simply run:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template.git
cd jersey-webservice-template
git checkout jpa-elide
mvn clean package
MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=$MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME docker compose up --build --force-recreate
```

where the value of `$MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME` variable is the package in config JAR that contains all
[elide models](https://elide.io/pages/guide/v7/02-data-model.html). It can be set, for example, at command line with:

```bash
export MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.mycompany.data.models
```

The variable will be [passed](https://stackoverflow.com/a/58900415) into Docker Compose file.

:::tip

Although not needed as in development, one can turn on OAuth feature in Docker Compose (for example in acceptance tests)
by

```bash
export $OAUTH_ENABLED=true
export $JWKS_URL=https://8is478.logto.app/oidc/jwks # this is an example URL :)
```

Note that OAuth feature is disabled by default in Docker Compose (i.e. OAUTH_ENABLED=false)

:::

:::tip

The MySQL database, if running correctly, can be accessed from host machine via

```bash
mysql -h localhost -P 3306 -D elide --protocol=tcp -u root -proot
```

Note all data is in `elide` database which we have specified to use in the command above.

:::

### Troubleshooting

#### Database Does Not Have My Model Packages's Bean Table

_If tests is running in IntelliJ IDE_, make sure the model package JAR it is in IDE's **External Libraries**

Otherwise, the dependency injection didn't find a bean class under the package specified by
[JWT_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME](#step-1-defining-data-models)

### Entity Missing Default Constructor

```bash
[main] INFO  o.h.m.i.EntityInstantiatorPojoStandard - HHH000182: No default (no-argument) constructor for
class: ... (class must be instantiated by Interceptor)
```

Simply add a no-args constructor to the bean class.

### How to Exclude GraphQL Feature

To optionally disable GraphQL endpoints, exclude corresponding dependencies in POM. For example:

```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
            <artifactId>elide-core</artifactId>
            <version>7.0.0-pr6</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
                    <artifactId>elide-graphql</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
```

Querying Webservice
-------------------

### GraphQL Queries through GraphiQL

#### Install GraphiQL (on Mac)

via [Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/graphiql)

```bash
brew install --cask graphiql
```

#### Quering GraphQL Endpoint

Let's crete a book:

```graphql
mutation {
  book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: "Pride & Prejudice"}) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-mutation-example.png](img/graphiql-mutation-example.png)

We can create few more books, sort and paginate them with:

```graphql
{
  book(sort: "-id", first: "1", after: "0") {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
    pageInfo {
      totalRecords
      startCursor
      endCursor
      hasNextPage
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript/JavaScript Axios

:::caution

Note that any serialization of TS/JS object (`someObject`) should be done with
`JSON.stringify(someObject).replace(/"/g, '\\"')`, otherwise the GraphQL query won't be parsed properly by webservice.

:::

```typescript
import axios from "axios";

const JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT = "https://myservice.com/v1/data";

export class Client {
  public saveOrUpdate(book: Book, userId: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    const someJsonField = JSON.stringify({ field1: book.field1, field2: book.field2 }).replace(/"/g, '\\"');

    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      mutation saveGraph {
        graph(op: UPSERT, data: {
          id: "${book.id}"
          title: "${book.title}"
          authorId: "${book.authorId}"
          jsonField: "${someJsonField}"
        }) {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
              author
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  public getBooksByAuthorId(authorId: string, accessToken: string) {
    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      query getBooksByAuthorId {
        book(filter:"authorId==${authorId}") {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  private postGraphQLQuery(query: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    return axios
      .post(JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT, { query: query }, this.getHeaders(accessToken))
      .then((response) => {
        return response;
      });
  }

  private getHeaders(token: string) {
    return {
      headers: {
        Accept: "application/json",
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        Authorization: "Bearer " + token,
      },
    };
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-query-example.png](img/graphiql-query-example.png)

[Docker Compose]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/jpa-elide/docker-compose.yml

[Elide]: https://elide.io/
[Elide instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/Elide.java
[Elide Standalone]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone
[ElideSettings instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/ElideSettings.java
[example model]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models/blob/master/src/main/java/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/models/Book.java

[jcabi-mysql]: https://mysql.jcabi.com/

[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/
[JWT]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/

[Testcontainers]: https://qubitpi.github.io/testcontainers-java/

[what is binding]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey/ioc.html

Commit message:

Support Docker Compose running in Docker (dind) (#138)

docs/docs/elide/development.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 11
title: Development
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

The following guide is intended to help developers who maintain or want to make changes to the
[Jersey Webservice Template].

Overview
--------

[Jersey Webservice Template] (_JWT_) delegates JPA capabilities to [Elide] and configures Elide through 2 required
Elide [bindings][what is binding]:

1. **[Elide][Elide instance class]**
2. **[ElideSettings][ElideSettings instance class]** with 2 extra sub-bindings:

   - **EntityDictionary**
   - **DataStore**

The binding is referencing [Elide Standalone] in the following way:

:::danger

Although the Jersey binder wraps HK2 binder, we
[must pick the _Jersey binder_ for binding Elide resources](https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/pull/29/files#diff-afa024cc2643aaf681db505cac24b8601c94931290718993392e7726001b1559L39-R40),
otherwise, dependency injection will flaky and not right.

:::

![Error loading resource-binding.png](img/resource-binding.png)

Running Tests
-------------

The IT tests will run against an [example model] so make sure the following environment variable is set to point to this
model:

```bash
export TEST_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models
```

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
Next, download the [data model](data-model) to _CLASSPATH_ by setting up the following `~/.m2/settings.xml`
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

:::tip

[JWT] ships with an example `settings.xml` which contains exactly the same settings as the one below. As an
alternative, we could simply run

```bash
cd jersey-webservice-template
cp settings.xml.example ~/.m2/settings.xml
```

:::

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>data-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.qubitpi</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                   jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models
                </model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.0</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>

    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>data-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>
</settings>
```

Then execute the following commands to run both unit and integration tests:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

For IT tests, we use [Testcontainers] instead of [jcabi-mysql] because the latter is hard to configure and debug and
[Testcontainers] support more types of db, such as mongo

Packaging
---------

```bash
mvn clean package
```

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
A [WAR file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WAR_(file_format)) named **jersey-webservice-template-1.0-SNAPSHOT.war** will
be generated under _target_ directory for
[running in Jetty](../development#running-webservice-in-standalone-jetty-production)
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

Running Webservice in Docker Compose
------------------------------------

Jersey Webservice Template can run in [Docker Compose] for the following purposes

1. Decoupling frontend and backend developments
2. Making it easy to run E2E testing of Jersey Webservice Template-backed application in CI/CD

:::caution

Docker Compose is intended for local development and testing purposes ONLY! _It is strongly discouraged to run it in
production!_

:::

import DockerCompose from './img/docker-compose.png';

<div align="center">
   <img src={DockerCompose} width="50%" alt="Error Loading docker-compose.png" />
</div>

### Step 1: Defining Data Models

To inject [Elide model package](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone#create-models), simply put
the models in a separate JAR and include it as a dependency in POM. If the model package is internal and cannot be
visible publicly, either make project private or public with model package dependency info
[injected via settings.xml](https://maven.apache.org/examples/injecting-properties-via-settings.html), for example:

```xml
<project>
    ...

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>${model.package.jar.group.id}</groupId>
            <artifactId>${model.package.jar.artifact.id}</artifactId>
            <version>${model.package.jar.version}</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>

    ...
</project>
```

with a corresponding `~/.m2/settings.xml`:

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>data-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.mycompnay</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>my-model-package</model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.7</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>


    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>data-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>

    <servers>
        ...
    </servers>
</settings>
```

Lastly, if IntelliJ IDE is used for developing [JWT], please make sure to let IDE pick up the `~/.m2/settings.xml` by
unchecking the _Use settings from .mvn/maven.config_:

![Error loading load-m2-settings.png](img/load-m2-settings.png)

### Step 2: Spinning Up Docker Compose

Simply run:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template.git
cd jersey-webservice-template
git checkout jpa-elide
mvn clean package
MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.mycompany.models docker compose up --build --force-recreate
```

The following [Docker Compose environment variables] can be [passed](https://stackoverflow.com/a/58900415) into Docker
Compose file:

- (**required**) `MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME` is the package in config JAR that contains all
  [elide models](https://elide.io/pages/guide/v7/02-data-model.html). In the example above, we assign the package
  `com.mycompany.models` to it
- (optional) `OAUTH_ENABLED` & `JWKS_URL` allow us to turn on OAuth feature in Docker Compose. For example, we might
  need it in acceptance tests. The two variables are set in pair:

  ```bash
  export $OAUTH_ENABLED=true
  export $JWKS_URL=https://8is478.logto.app/oidc/jwks # this is an example URL :)
  ```

  _Note that OAuth feature is disabled by default in Docker Compose (i.e. OAUTH_ENABLED=false)_

- (optional) `MYSQL_INIT_SCRIPT_PATH` is the path (absolute or relative) to the
  [MySQL init script](https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/jpa-elide/mysql-init.sql). _By
  default, its value is `./mysql-init.sql`_. This option is very useful when Docker Compose is running inside Docker
  (Docker-in-Docker), in which case `MYSQL_INIT_SCRIPT_PATH` is not the path in Docker but the path on the host
  machine. Exposing this mount source allows Docker Compose to successfully pick up the MySQL init script from within
  the Docker-in-Docker.

:::tip

The MySQL database, if running correctly, can be accessed from host machine via

```bash
mysql -h localhost -P 3306 -D elide --protocol=tcp -u root -proot
```

Note all data is in `elide` database which we have specified to use in the command above.

:::

### Troubleshooting

#### Database Does Not Have My Model Packages's Bean Table

_If tests is running in IntelliJ IDE_, make sure the model package JAR it is in IDE's **External Libraries**

Otherwise, the dependency injection didn't find a bean class under the package specified by
[JWT_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME](#step-1-defining-data-models)

### Entity Missing Default Constructor

```bash
[main] INFO  o.h.m.i.EntityInstantiatorPojoStandard - HHH000182: No default (no-argument) constructor for
class: ... (class must be instantiated by Interceptor)
```

Simply add a no-args constructor to the bean class.

### How to Exclude GraphQL Feature

To optionally disable GraphQL endpoints, exclude corresponding dependencies in POM. For example:

```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
            <artifactId>elide-core</artifactId>
            <version>7.0.0-pr6</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
                    <artifactId>elide-graphql</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
```

Querying Webservice
-------------------

### GraphQL Queries through GraphiQL

#### Install GraphiQL (on Mac)

via [Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/graphiql)

```bash
brew install --cask graphiql
```

#### Quering GraphQL Endpoint

Let's crete a book:

```graphql
mutation {
  book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: "Pride & Prejudice"}) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-mutation-example.png](img/graphiql-mutation-example.png)

We can create few more books, sort and paginate them with:

```graphql
{
  book(sort: "-id", first: "1", after: "0") {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
    pageInfo {
      totalRecords
      startCursor
      endCursor
      hasNextPage
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript/JavaScript Axios

:::caution

Note that any serialization of TS/JS object (`someObject`) should be done with
`JSON.stringify(someObject).replace(/"/g, '\\"')`, otherwise the GraphQL query won't be parsed properly by webservice.

:::

```typescript
import axios from "axios";

const JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT = "https://myservice.com/v1/data";

export class Client {
  public saveOrUpdate(book: Book, userId: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    const someJsonField = JSON.stringify({ field1: book.field1, field2: book.field2 }).replace(/"/g, '\\"');

    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      mutation saveGraph {
        graph(op: UPSERT, data: {
          id: "${book.id}"
          title: "${book.title}"
          authorId: "${book.authorId}"
          jsonField: "${someJsonField}"
        }) {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
              author
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  public getBooksByAuthorId(authorId: string, accessToken: string) {
    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      query getBooksByAuthorId {
        book(filter:"authorId==${authorId}") {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  private postGraphQLQuery(query: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    return axios
      .post(JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT, { query: query }, this.getHeaders(accessToken))
      .then((response) => {
        return response;
      });
  }

  private getHeaders(token: string) {
    return {
      headers: {
        Accept: "application/json",
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        Authorization: "Bearer " + token,
      },
    };
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-query-example.png](img/graphiql-query-example.png)

[Docker Compose]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template/blob/jpa-elide/docker-compose.yml

[Elide]: https://elide.io/
[Elide instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/Elide.java
[Elide Standalone]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone
[ElideSettings instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/ElideSettings.java
[example model]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models/blob/master/src/main/java/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/models/Book.java

[jcabi-mysql]: https://mysql.jcabi.com/

[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/
[JWT]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/

[Testcontainers]: https://qubitpi.github.io/testcontainers-java/

[what is binding]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey/ioc.html
