docs/blog/2019-08-23-env-var-in-pom.md, before:

---
slug: env-var-in-pom
title: Refer to Environment Variables in POM
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Java, Maven]
---

Environment Variables
---------------------

To refer to environment variables from the pom.xml, we can use the `${env.VARIABLE_NAME}` syntax.

For instance, let's use it to externalize the Java version in the build process:

```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>3.8.1</version>
            <configuration>
                <source>${env.JAVA_VERSION}</source>
                <target>${env.JAVA_VERSION}</target>
            </configuration>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

We should remember to pass the Java version information via environment variables. If we fail to do so, then we won't be
able to build the project.

To run the Maven goals or phases against such a build file, we should first export the environment variable. For
instance

```bash
export JAVA_VERSION=17
mvn clean package
```

In order to provide a default when the `JAVA_VERSION` environment variable is missing we can use a Maven profile:

```xml
<profiles>
    <profile>
        <id>default-java</id>
        <activation>
            <property>
                <name>!env.JAVA_VERSION</name>
            </property>
        </activation>
        <build>
            <plugins>
                <plugin>
                    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
                    <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
                    <version>3.8.1</version>
                    <configuration>
                        <source>1.8</source>
                        <target>1.8</target>
                    </configuration>
                </plugin>
            </plugins>
        </build>
    </profile>
</profiles>
```

As shown above, we're creating a profile and making it active only if the `JAVA_VERSION` environment variable is missing
(`!env.JAVA_VERSION` part). If that happens, then this new plugin definition will override the existing one.

Commit message:

Add copyright claims to blog posts

docs/blog/2019-08-23-env-var-in-pom.md, after:

---
slug: env-var-in-pom
title: Refer to Environment Variables in POM
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Java, Maven]
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

Environment Variables
---------------------

To refer to environment variables from the pom.xml, we can use the `${env.VARIABLE_NAME}` syntax.

For instance, let's use it to externalize the Java version in the build process:

```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>3.8.1</version>
            <configuration>
                <source>${env.JAVA_VERSION}</source>
                <target>${env.JAVA_VERSION}</target>
            </configuration>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

We should remember to pass the Java version information via environment variables. If we fail to do so, then we won't be
able to build the project.

To run the Maven goals or phases against such a build file, we should first export the environment variable. For
instance

```bash
export JAVA_VERSION=17
mvn clean package
```

In order to provide a default when the `JAVA_VERSION` environment variable is missing we can use a Maven profile:

```xml
<profiles>
    <profile>
        <id>default-java</id>
        <activation>
            <property>
                <name>!env.JAVA_VERSION</name>
            </property>
        </activation>
        <build>
            <plugins>
                <plugin>
                    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
                    <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
                    <version>3.8.1</version>
                    <configuration>
                        <source>1.8</source>
                        <target>1.8</target>
                    </configuration>
                </plugin>
            </plugins>
        </build>
    </profile>
</profiles>
```

As shown above, we're creating a profile and making it active only if the `JAVA_VERSION` environment variable is missing
(`!env.JAVA_VERSION` part). If that happens, then this new plugin definition will override the existing one.
