docs/blog/2021-04-30-java-stream.md, before:

---
slug: java-stream
title: Java 8 Stream
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Java]
---

Combining a Collection of Predicates
------------------------------------

We chain a collection of Predicates by reducing them. In the following example, we have a list of predicates that we
combined using `Predicate.and()`:

```java
@Test
public void whenFilterListWithCollectionOfPredicatesUsingAnd_thenSuccess(){
    List<Predicate<String>> allPredicates = new ArrayList<Predicate<String>>();
    allPredicates.add(str -> str.startsWith("A"));
    allPredicates.add(str -> str.contains("d"));
    allPredicates.add(str -> str.length() > 4);

    List<String> result = names.stream()
        .filter(allPredicates.stream().reduce(x->true, Predicate::and))
        .collect(Collectors.toList());

    assertEquals(1, result.size());
    assertThat(result, contains("Alexander"));
}
```

Note that we use our base identity as:

```java
x->true
```

That will be, however, different if we want to combine them using Predicate.or():

```java
@Test
public void whenFilterListWithCollectionOfPredicatesUsingOr_thenSuccess(){
    List<String> result = names.stream()
        .filter(allPredicates.stream().reduce(x->false, Predicate::or))
        .collect(Collectors.toList());

    assertEquals(2, result.size());
    assertThat(result, contains("Adam","Alexander"));
}
```

Collecting Stream containing "null" to List
-------------------------------------------

```java
person.stream()
        .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt(Person::getDriverLicense))
        .collect(Collectors.toList());
```

If this stream contains a kid who doesn't know how to drive, the `Collectors.toList()` might see a `null` value, which
causes `NullPointerException`, because `Collectors.toList()` gives us a list implementation that doesn't permit `null`
elements. `ArrayList`, however, permits `null` elements according to its JavaDoc. The solution them would be

```java
person.stream()
        .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt(Person::getDriverLicense))
        .collect(Collectors.toCollection(ArrayList::new));
```

Note that the last line is changed so that the collect procedure returns an uer-specified list implementation, which is
`ArrayList`

Sorting
-------

```java
public class User {

    private final String name;
    private final int age;
}

final List<User> users = Arrays.asList(
        new User("C", 30),
        new User("D", 40),
        new User("A", 10),
        new User("B", 20),
        new User("E", 50)
);

List<User> sortedList = users.stream()
            .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt(User::getAge))
            .collect(Collectors.toList());
```

Remove Duplicates from a List of Objects based on Property
----------------------------------------------------------

You can get a stream from the List and put in in the TreeSet from which you provide a custom comparator that compares
the property uniquely. Then if you really need a list you can put then back this collection into an ArrayList:

```java
import static java.util.Comparator.comparingInt;
import static java.util.stream.Collectors.collectingAndThen;
import static java.util.stream.Collectors.toCollection;

...
List<Employee> unique = employee.stream()
        .collect(
                collectingAndThen(
                        toCollection(() -> new TreeSet<>(comparingInt(Employee::getId))),
                        ArrayList::new
                )
        );
```

Given the example:

```java
List<Employee> employee = Arrays.asList(new Employee(1, "John"), new Employee(1, "Bob"), new Employee(2, "Alice"));
```

It will output:

```java
[Employee{id=1, name='John'}, Employee{id=2, name='Alice'}]
```

Convert Iterable to Stream
--------------------------

```java
StreamSupport.stream(iterable.spliterator(), false)
        .filter(...)
        .moreStreamOps(...);
```

Convert Two Dimensional Array to List
-------------------------------------

```java
List<Foo> collection = Arrays.stream(array)  //'array' is two-dimensional
        .flatMap(Arrays::stream)
        .collect(Collectors.toList());
```

Preserve Order in Stream with collect
-------------------------------------

Say we would like to process a list such as ["blah", "blah", "yep"] and get ["blah (2 times)", "yep"], we will collect
them to a `LinkedHashMap` to get the expected result:

```java
return messages.stream()
        .collect(groupingBy(Function.identity(), LinkedHashMap::new, summingInt(e -> 1)))
        .entrySet()
        .stream()
        .map(e -> e.getKey()+(e.getValue() == 1 ? "" : " (" + e.getValue() +" times)"))
        .collect(toList());
```

Commit message:

Add copyright claims to blog posts

docs/blog/2021-04-30-java-stream.md, after:

---
slug: java-stream
title: Java 8 Stream
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Java]
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

Combining a Collection of Predicates
------------------------------------

We chain a collection of Predicates by reducing them. In the following example, we have a list of predicates that we
combined using `Predicate.and()`:

```java
@Test
public void whenFilterListWithCollectionOfPredicatesUsingAnd_thenSuccess(){
    List<Predicate<String>> allPredicates = new ArrayList<Predicate<String>>();
    allPredicates.add(str -> str.startsWith("A"));
    allPredicates.add(str -> str.contains("d"));
    allPredicates.add(str -> str.length() > 4);

    List<String> result = names.stream()
        .filter(allPredicates.stream().reduce(x->true, Predicate::and))
        .collect(Collectors.toList());

    assertEquals(1, result.size());
    assertThat(result, contains("Alexander"));
}
```

Note that we use our base identity as:

```java
x->true
```

That will be, however, different if we want to combine them using Predicate.or():

```java
@Test
public void whenFilterListWithCollectionOfPredicatesUsingOr_thenSuccess(){
    List<String> result = names.stream()
        .filter(allPredicates.stream().reduce(x->false, Predicate::or))
        .collect(Collectors.toList());

    assertEquals(2, result.size());
    assertThat(result, contains("Adam","Alexander"));
}
```

Collecting Stream containing "null" to List
-------------------------------------------

```java
person.stream()
        .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt(Person::getDriverLicense))
        .collect(Collectors.toList());
```

If this stream contains a kid who doesn't know how to drive, the `Collectors.toList()` might see a `null` value, which
causes `NullPointerException`, because `Collectors.toList()` gives us a list implementation that doesn't permit `null`
elements. `ArrayList`, however, permits `null` elements according to its JavaDoc. The solution them would be

```java
person.stream()
        .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt(Person::getDriverLicense))
        .collect(Collectors.toCollection(ArrayList::new));
```

Note that the last line is changed so that the collect procedure returns an uer-specified list implementation, which is
`ArrayList`

Sorting
-------

```java
public class User {

    private final String name;
    private final int age;
}

final List<User> users = Arrays.asList(
        new User("C", 30),
        new User("D", 40),
        new User("A", 10),
        new User("B", 20),
        new User("E", 50)
);

List<User> sortedList = users.stream()
            .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt(User::getAge))
            .collect(Collectors.toList());
```

Remove Duplicates from a List of Objects based on Property
----------------------------------------------------------

You can get a stream from the List and put in in the TreeSet from which you provide a custom comparator that compares
the property uniquely. Then if you really need a list you can put then back this collection into an ArrayList:

```java
import static java.util.Comparator.comparingInt;
import static java.util.stream.Collectors.collectingAndThen;
import static java.util.stream.Collectors.toCollection;

...
List<Employee> unique = employee.stream()
        .collect(
                collectingAndThen(
                        toCollection(() -> new TreeSet<>(comparingInt(Employee::getId))),
                        ArrayList::new
                )
        );
```

Given the example:

```java
List<Employee> employee = Arrays.asList(new Employee(1, "John"), new Employee(1, "Bob"), new Employee(2, "Alice"));
```

It will output:

```java
[Employee{id=1, name='John'}, Employee{id=2, name='Alice'}]
```

Convert Iterable to Stream
--------------------------

```java
StreamSupport.stream(iterable.spliterator(), false)
        .filter(...)
        .moreStreamOps(...);
```

Convert Two Dimensional Array to List
-------------------------------------

```java
List<Foo> collection = Arrays.stream(array)  //'array' is two-dimensional
        .flatMap(Arrays::stream)
        .collect(Collectors.toList());
```

Preserve Order in Stream with collect
-------------------------------------

Say we would like to process a list such as ["blah", "blah", "yep"] and get ["blah (2 times)", "yep"], we will collect
them to a `LinkedHashMap` to get the expected result:

```java
return messages.stream()
        .collect(groupingBy(Function.identity(), LinkedHashMap::new, summingInt(e -> 1)))
        .entrySet()
        .stream()
        .map(e -> e.getKey()+(e.getValue() == 1 ? "" : " (" + e.getValue() +" times)"))
        .collect(toList());
```
