docs/blog/2022-09-12-bearer-authentication.md, before:

---
slug: bearer-authentication
title: Bearer Authentication
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Security]
---

**Bearer authentication** (also called **token authentication**) is an
[HTTP authentication scheme][HTTP authentication scheme] that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name
"Bearer authentication" can be understood as "give access to the bearer of this token." The bearer token is a cryptic
string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the
`Authorization` header when making requests to protected resources:

```bash
Authorization: Bearer <token>
```

The Bearer authentication scheme was originally created as part of [OAuth 2.0][OAuth 2.0] in [RFC 6750][RFC 6750], but
is sometimes also used on its own. Similarly to [Basic authentication][Basic authentication], Bearer authentication
should only be used over HTTPS (SSL).

[RFC 6750]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750
[OAuth 2.0]: https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/oauth2/
[HTTP authentication scheme]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication
[Basic authentication]: https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/basic-authentication/

Commit message:

Add copyright claims to blog posts

docs/blog/2022-09-12-bearer-authentication.md, after:

---
slug: bearer-authentication
title: Bearer Authentication
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Security]
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

**Bearer authentication** (also called **token authentication**) is an
[HTTP authentication scheme][HTTP authentication scheme] that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name
"Bearer authentication" can be understood as "give access to the bearer of this token." The bearer token is a cryptic
string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the
`Authorization` header when making requests to protected resources:

```bash
Authorization: Bearer <token>
```

The Bearer authentication scheme was originally created as part of [OAuth 2.0][OAuth 2.0] in [RFC 6750][RFC 6750], but
is sometimes also used on its own. Similarly to [Basic authentication][Basic authentication], Bearer authentication
should only be used over HTTPS (SSL).

[RFC 6750]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750
[OAuth 2.0]: https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/oauth2/
[HTTP authentication scheme]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication
[Basic authentication]: https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/basic-authentication/
