docs/blog/2022-07-03-happy-path.md, before:

---
slug: happy-path
title: Happy Path
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Testing]
---

In the context of software or information modeling, a happy path (sometimes called happy flow) is a default scenario
featuring no exceptional or error conditions. For example, the happy path for a function validating credit card numbers
would be where none of the validation rules raise an error, thus letting execution continue successfully to the end,
generating a positive response.

Process steps for a happy path are also used in the context of a [use case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Use_case). In
contrast to the happy path, process steps for alternate paths and exception paths may also be documented.

Happy path test is a well-defined test case using known input, which executes without exception and produces an expected
output. Happy path testing can show that a system meets its functional requirements but it doesn't guarantee a graceful
handling of error conditions or aid in finding hidden bugs.

> Happy day (or sunny day) scenario and golden path are synonyms for happy path.

In use case analysis, there is only one happy path, but there may be any number of additional alternate path scenarios
which are all valid optional outcomes. If valid alternatives exist, the happy path is then identified as the default or
most likely positive alternative. The analysis may also show one or more exception paths. An exception path is taken as
the result of a fault condition. Use cases and the resulting interactions are commonly modeled in graphical languages
such as the Unified Modeling Language (UML) or SysML

Commit message:

Add copyright claims to blog posts

docs/blog/2022-07-03-happy-path.md, after:

---
slug: happy-path
title: Happy Path
authors: jiaqi
tags: [Testing]
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

In the context of software or information modeling, a happy path (sometimes called happy flow) is a default scenario
featuring no exceptional or error conditions. For example, the happy path for a function validating credit card numbers
would be where none of the validation rules raise an error, thus letting execution continue successfully to the end,
generating a positive response.

Process steps for a happy path are also used in the context of a [use case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Use_case). In
contrast to the happy path, process steps for alternate paths and exception paths may also be documented.

Happy path test is a well-defined test case using known input, which executes without exception and produces an expected
output. Happy path testing can show that a system meets its functional requirements but it doesn't guarantee a graceful
handling of error conditions or aid in finding hidden bugs.

> Happy day (or sunny day) scenario and golden path are synonyms for happy path.

In use case analysis, there is only one happy path, but there may be any number of additional alternate path scenarios
which are all valid optional outcomes. If valid alternatives exist, the happy path is then identified as the default or
most likely positive alternative. The analysis may also show one or more exception paths. An exception path is taken as
the result of a fault condition. Use cases and the resulting interactions are commonly modeled in graphical languages
such as the Unified Modeling Language (UML) or SysML
