docs/docs/crud/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Getting Started
description: Standing up a CRUD webservice in a minute
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[![AWS EC2 min size][AWS EC2 min size]](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)

So You Want An API?
-------------------

:::info Please make sure JDK 17, Maven, and Docker Engine have been installed 🤗

- We offer [instruction](../setup#installing-java--maven-on-mac) on how to install JDK 17 and Maven
- We also offer [links to Docker Engine installation](../setup#installing-docker-engine)

:::

Instantiating the Template
--------------------------

Please visit [JWT GitHub] and either

1. clone the repo with `git clone https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template.git`, or
2. make it a template instantiation with our own webservice name by doing the following:

   ![Error loading instantiation-1.png](./img/instantiation-1.png)
   ![Error loading instantiation-2.png](./img/instantiation-2.png)

Creating Models
---------------

[Jersey Webservice Template] models are some of the most important code in any webservice project. Our models are the
view of our data that we wish to expose. In this example we will be modeling a _book_ since most people have a
high-level familiarity with books in life.

Our _Book_ model looks something like this:

```java
import com.yahoo.elide.annotation.Include;

import jakarta.persistence.Entity;
import jakarta.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import jakarta.persistence.Id;
import jakarta.persistence.Table;

@Entity
@Table(name = "book")
@Include(rootLevel = true, name = "book", description = "book entity", friendlyName = "book")
public class Book {

    @Id
    @GeneratedValue
    public long id;

    public String title = "";
}
```

:::tip

Models are usually packaged as **JAR** file in a separate Maven project. Here is a complete
[example](https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models)

:::

In the end, run `mvn clean install` to install our model

:::info

From this point on, we assume [this example data model][jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models] is used

```bash
git clone https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models.git
cd jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models
mvn clean install
```

:::

Loading Data Models
-------------------

So now we have some models, but without an API it is not very useful. Now we need to instruct our _my-webservice_ to
load [data models](#creating-models) via Maven config file, i.e. **~/.m2/settings.xml**:

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>jwt-data-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>io.github.qubitpi</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models</model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.1</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>

    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>jwt-data-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>
</settings>
```

Running
-------

With data models defined, can run _my-webservice_

```bash
cd my-webservice
mvn clean package
MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=io.github.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models docker compose up --build --force-recreate
```

:::info

`io.github.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models` is the name of the model in the aforementioned
[data model project][jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models]

:::

Writing Data
------------

### Inserting Data

We have defined our views on the database and exposed those views over HTTP. Next let's use cURL to put data in the
database.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jsonapi" label="JSON-API" default>
    ```bash
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book \
        -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -H "Accept: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -d '{"data": {"type": "book", "attributes": { "title": "Pride and Prejudice" }}}'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/v1/data" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -H "Accept: application/json"  \
        -d '{ "query" : "mutation { book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: \"Pride & Prejudice\"}) { edges { node { id title } } } }" }'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql-query" label="(GraphQL) Query">
    ```graphql
    mutation {
      book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: "Pride & Prejudice"}) {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            title
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

When we run that cURL call we should see a bunch of JSON returned, that is our newly inserted object!

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jsonapi" label="JSON-API" default>
    ```json
    {
       "data":{
          "type":"book",
          "id":"1",
          "attributes":{
             "title":"Pride and Prejudice"
          }
       }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```json
    {
       "data":{
          "book":{
             "edges":[
                {
                   "node":{
                      "id":"4",
                      "title":"Pride & Prejudice"
                   }
                }
             ]
          }
       }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Looking at Our Data

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="browser" label="Web Browser" default>
    <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
    Simply open up our favorite browser and hit **http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book**
    <!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

:::tip

It is recommended to view result with some
[JSON formatter](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/json-formatter/bcjindcccaagfpapjjmafapmmgkkhgoa) browser
extension for better viewing experience

:::

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="json-api" label="JSON-API">
    ```bash
    curl "http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book"
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/v1/data" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -H "Accept: application/json"  \
        -d '{ "query" : "{ book { edges { node { id title } } } }" }'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql-query" label="(GraphQL) Query">
    ```graphql
    {
      book {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            title
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Modifying Data

Notice that, when we created it, we did not set any of the attributes of our new book record. Updating our data to help
our users is just as easy as it is to add new data. Let's update our model with the following cURL call.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jsonapi" label="JSON-API" default>
    ```bash
    curl -X PATCH http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book/1 \
        -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -H "Accept: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -d '{"data": {"type": "book", "id": "1", "attributes": { "title": "Emma" }}}'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/v1/data" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -H "Accept: application/json"  \
        -d '{ "query" : "mutation { book(op: UPSERT, data: {id: \"1\", title: \"Emma\"}) { edges { node { id title } } } }" }'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql-query" label="(GraphQL) Query">
    ```graphql
    mutation {
      book(op: UPSERT, data: {id: "1", title: "Emma"}) {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            title
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

[AWS EC2 min size]: https://img.shields.io/badge/EC2-%E2%89%A5t2.small-FF9902?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazonec2&logoColor=white

[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/
[JWT GitHub]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template

[jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models

Commit message:

Add branch switching in JPA Elide docs (#158)

docs/docs/crud/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Getting Started
description: Standing up a CRUD webservice in a minute
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[![AWS EC2 min size][AWS EC2 min size]](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)

So You Want An API?
-------------------

:::info Please make sure JDK 17, Maven, and Docker Engine have been installed 🤗

- We offer [instruction](../setup#installing-java--maven-on-mac) on how to install JDK 17 and Maven
- We also offer [links to Docker Engine installation](../setup#installing-docker-engine)

:::

Instantiating the Template
--------------------------

Please visit [JWT GitHub] and either

1. clone the repo with `git clone https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template.git` and switch to the
   `jpa-elide` branch using `git checkout jpa-elide`, or
2. make it a template instantiation with our own webservice name by doing the following:

   ![Error loading instantiation-1.png](./img/instantiation-1.png)

   :::note

   Please make sure the "__Include all branches__" is checked

   :::

   ![Error loading instantiation-2.png](./img/instantiation-2.png)

Creating Models
---------------

[Jersey Webservice Template] models are some of the most important code in any webservice project. Our models are the
view of our data that we wish to expose. In this example we will be modeling a _book_ since most people have a
high-level familiarity with books in life.

Our _Book_ model looks something like this:

```java
import com.yahoo.elide.annotation.Include;

import jakarta.persistence.Entity;
import jakarta.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import jakarta.persistence.Id;
import jakarta.persistence.Table;

@Entity
@Table(name = "book")
@Include(rootLevel = true, name = "book", description = "book entity", friendlyName = "book")
public class Book {

    @Id
    @GeneratedValue
    public long id;

    public String title = "";
}
```

:::tip

Models are usually packaged as **JAR** file in a separate Maven project. Here is a complete
[example](https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models)

:::

In the end, run `mvn clean install` to install our model

:::info

From this point on, we assume [this example data model][jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models] is used, which can
be installed locally using the following commands:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models.git
cd jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models
mvn clean install
```

:::

Loading Data Models
-------------------

So now we have some models, but without an API it is not very useful. Now we need to instruct our _my-webservice_ to
load [data models](#creating-models) via Maven config file, i.e. __settings.xml__:

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>jwt-data-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>io.github.qubitpi</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models</model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.1</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>

    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>jwt-data-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>
</settings>
```

Running
-------

With data models defined, can run _my-webservice_

```bash
cd my-webservice
mvn clean package --settings settings.xml
MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=io.github.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models docker compose up --build --force-recreate
```

Note that the `settings.xml` is the [Maven config file for loading the data model](#loading-data-models)

:::info

`io.github.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models` is the name of the model in the aforementioned
[data model project][jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models]

:::

Writing Data
------------

### Inserting Data

We have defined our views on the database and exposed those views over HTTP. Next let's use cURL to put data in the
database.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jsonapi" label="JSON-API" default>
    ```bash
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book \
        -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -H "Accept: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -d '{"data": {"type": "book", "attributes": { "title": "Pride and Prejudice" }}}'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/v1/data" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -H "Accept: application/json"  \
        -d '{ "query" : "mutation { book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: \"Pride & Prejudice\"}) { edges { node { id title } } } }" }'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql-query" label="(GraphQL) Query">
    ```graphql
    mutation {
      book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: "Pride & Prejudice"}) {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            title
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

When we run that cURL call we should see a bunch of JSON returned, that is our newly inserted object!

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jsonapi" label="JSON-API" default>
    ```json
    {
       "data":{
          "type":"book",
          "id":"1",
          "attributes":{
             "title":"Pride and Prejudice"
          }
       }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```json
    {
       "data":{
          "book":{
             "edges":[
                {
                   "node":{
                      "id":"4",
                      "title":"Pride & Prejudice"
                   }
                }
             ]
          }
       }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Looking at Our Data

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="browser" label="Web Browser" default>
    <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
    Simply open up our favorite browser and hit **http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book**
    <!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

:::tip

It is recommended to view result with some
[JSON formatter](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/json-formatter/bcjindcccaagfpapjjmafapmmgkkhgoa) browser
extension for better viewing experience

:::

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="json-api" label="JSON-API">
    ```bash
    curl "http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book"
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/v1/data" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -H "Accept: application/json"  \
        -d '{ "query" : "{ book { edges { node { id title } } } }" }'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql-query" label="(GraphQL) Query">
    ```graphql
    {
      book {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            title
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Modifying Data

Notice that, when we created it, we did not set any of the attributes of our new book record. Updating our data to help
our users is just as easy as it is to add new data. Let's update our model with the following cURL call.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="jsonapi" label="JSON-API" default>
    ```bash
    curl -X PATCH http://localhost:8080/v1/data/book/1 \
        -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -H "Accept: application/vnd.api+json" \
        -d '{"data": {"type": "book", "id": "1", "attributes": { "title": "Emma" }}}'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql" label="GraphQL">
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/v1/data" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -H "Accept: application/json"  \
        -d '{ "query" : "mutation { book(op: UPSERT, data: {id: \"1\", title: \"Emma\"}) { edges { node { id title } } } }" }'
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="graphql-query" label="(GraphQL) Query">
    ```graphql
    mutation {
      book(op: UPSERT, data: {id: "1", title: "Emma"}) {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            title
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

[AWS EC2 min size]: https://img.shields.io/badge/EC2-%E2%89%A5t2.small-FF9902?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazonec2&logoColor=white

[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/
[JWT GitHub]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template

[jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models
